EXSYS  is a group of programs that allows you to generate expert systems to
solve  a  wide  range of problems. An expert system is a type of artificial
intelligence  program  in  which the  computer  is  taught,  using  English
sentences  and algebraic  expressions, how  to solve  a problem.  Once  the
computer has been taught to solve the problem, a user can interact with the
computer  as  if  it were a human expert in the subject area.  The computer
asks  the user  questions, arrives  at a  logical conclusion  based on  the
user's  response and can explain, in easily readable English, its rationale
for  the conclusion it reaches. The program can also explain why it needs a
particular piece of information.

Once  an expert system is  created all the user  has to do is  select items
from  multiple choice lists. EXSYS  brings the capability to  generate your
own  expert systems  to the  IBM PC.  EXSYS is  a low  cost  expert  system
development tool for the IBM PC with features and  capabilities  comparable
to programs costing much, much more.

An expert system can be created with EXSYS for any problem if:

     1.  The problem involves a selection from among a definable group
     of  choices. The  number of  choices can  be very  large, as  the
     program can use the full memory of the IBM PC.   Options  ranging
     from  simple yes/no or buy/sell decisions to selecting from among
     over 1000 possible solutions can be handled.

     2. The decisions which lead to resolution of the problem  can  be
     stated  in  terms  of  logical  rules.   The  rules  can  involve
     probability,  e.g. "If X and  Y then there is an 80% chance  that
     choice 1 is appropriate". The program can derive information from
     other  rules, so large problems  can be broken down  into smaller
     ones. Once the smaller, and generally easier, problems are solved
     the  program combines the solutions to solve the overall problem.
     The statement of the logical rules can involve text statements or
     mathematical  expressions. Numeric variables  can be included  in
     the rules and calculated by the program.

The  scope of possible applications  is endless. Any area  where one person
has  special knowledge or expertise  that is needed by  others is a  likely
candidate.  Anything  from  identification  of  biological  specimens,   to
automating  complex regulations, to aiding buyers in selecting from among a
group  of  products, to  automated user assistance  is possible. An  expert
system  makes one person's expertise available to many others or allows the
knowledge of a group of experts to be collected in a usable form. To run an
existing  expert system  takes essentially  no training  and involves  only
selection of items from multiple choice lists.

With  the  EXSYS  Expert System  Development  Package  you will  be able to
generate  expert systems without  any knowledge of  programming or  complex
computer languages. ALL input is straight forward English  text,  algebraic
expression  or selection of an  item from a list.  The rules that tell  the
computer  how to solve the problem are collections of sentences, similar to
the way you would explain to a person how to solve the problem. All command
options available are always displayed on the screen and help  screens  are
always available for more detailed information.

EXSYS  allows  probabilities  to  be  assigned  to  the  various   possible
solutions. Many rules can contribute to the final probability of  a  single
solution.  This  allows  a wide range of factors to be considered and makes
for a much more realistic expert system.

If  you do have  problems running EXSYS,  there is also  an  expert  system
included  to  help  determine the cause of your difficulty and how to avoid
it.

You  can  even  sell the expert systems you develop. The runtime portion of
the  development  package  can  be  distributed  with  your  expert  system
knowledge base without royalty if you are a registered EXSYS user.



                            FEATURES OF EXSYS

1.   The knowledge and  expertise of individuals  can be "captured"  in the
expert system knowledge base.

2.  Users of expert systems are educated while they are getting the correct
answers to real life problems.

3.  EXSYS can fully explain how it arrived at its conclusions.  You can ask
the computer why it wants a particular piece  of  information  it is asking
you for and the computer will explain its need for the information  and how
it will be used in arriving at a conclusion.

4.  Once  the  program has reached its conclusion, you can easily try "what
if"  experiments by changing one, or a few, of the answers to the questions
the  computer asked while  holding the rest  of the answers  constant. This
allows  you  to  perform a  sensitivity  analysis  to see  how  critical  a
particular  answer was in  arriving at the  final conclusion. You  can also
develop  an  expert  system model  and use  the "what  if" feature  to test
possibilities. Values can be saved from a previous run for comparison.

5. When an expert system needs data it will try to derive  the  information
from  other rules (backward  chaining).  This allows  large problems to  be
broken down into smaller more easily solved ones.  The program combines the
solutions to the smaller problems to solve the large problem.

6. Expert systems can be developed without special programming knowledge or
need for special computer languages. All input is English  text,  algebraic
expression or selection from a list displayed on the screen.

7.  The  EXSYS  package is written in C and uses memory very efficiently so
knowledge bases with large numbers of rules can be developed.  The  program
can  use the full available memory in the PC and can handle about 700 rules
per 64k of memory over 192k, that is almost 5000 rules in a PC with 640k of
memory.

8.  The  selection among  the possible solutions  to a problem  can involve
probability  in  several ways.   The expert system  will keep track  of the
probabilities of the various choices and provide a sorted list of solutions
from the most likely to least likely.

9. Rules can be easily added, deleted or changed with the rule  editor  and
you can run the rules you have entered without leaving the rule editor.

10.  All new rules entered into the expert system are automatically checked
against all existing rules for consistency.

11.  Numeric variables can be used in algebraic expressions. Trigonometric,
exponential  and log functions  are supported. Numeric  values also can  be
calculated  by  the  expert system  and  displayed  to the  user  with  the
program's final conclusions.

12. Color is supported or can be switched off.

13.  All registered users of EXSYS get program updates for only $20.

14.  Help  screens  are  available  from  all  menus  to  provide  detailed
information on command options.

15. All EXSYS programs are not copy protected making them easier to use and
more reliable.



                           SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

                           IBM PC, AT or true compatible
                           256k or more
                           1 single sided disk drive
                           DOS 2.0  or higher

